let's look at one more thing,
which is there.
We saw variables before to
keep track of the score.
There's this other one over here.
We'll talk about blocks in a little bit.
There's this other one
here called make a list.
Right?
And that is simply you know, for those,
for those of you who have dabbled in
the JavaScript programming
language before An array, right?
And those are useful.
There's no objects, so
that'll bite us later, don't worry.
We can make a list and
again, this can be for
this sprite only, or
it can be for all sprites, right?
I'm gonna say for
this sprite only for now,
and I'm doing this apparently
on the cheese buffs.
Let's go for it.
Why not?
List name is catchphrases.
Catchphrases, okay?
So you can see I have these
cheesy puffs catchphrases.
There's nothing in there right now, right?
There's a little plus sign.
What are some of the things
that cheese puffs say?
>> I'm cheesy.
>> All right I am Cheesy.
Exclamation point or period?
Is a statement.
>> Exclamation [LAUGH].
>> Exclamation, yeah, it's a good choice.
>> But three of them.
>> Three exclamation points.
Okay, what else do cheese puff say.
>> Hello.
>> Hello,
I think with a period a very Hello.
All right.
Any other things that
cheese puffs might say?
>> I am non sentient.
>> Okay, the like that they say that I am
non sentient that's not suspicious at all.
No, I am not.
I am totally non sentient about that like
just to make it very clear like in no
way am I sent Dan.
Do anything you want the team
loves to say Now okay,
well three sayings.
But the cheese puff say
I will add one more.
I am totally healthy food.
As long as we got lion cheese puffs, they
might lie about lots of things, right?
Cool.
So now what I want to have
happen when I click on it,
I want it to rotate through
its various settings, right?
So at this point, we're gonna need both
that idea of a modulo from before,
just to get some extra practice.
And then also this idea
of having this list.
So, when we click on Arnold,
it will get the message to say I am puffy,
but when we click on the cheese puffs,
then in this case,
we want it to rotate through
one of his catchphrases.
So we'll say,
we'll go to these events over here,
I'll say when this sprite is clicked.
Okay, now what do we do?
How do we,
if I look inside my variables, and
I go to the block,
I can add things to the list.
I can delete one of the things and
get the first thing off
the list to start with that.
And so we'll say looks And we'll say.
>> The one that you're going
to do you pick random one and
the one put pick random
between one to four.
>> Okay.
>> Operators,
>> So we got operators and
we'll say that we want to pick
random between one and four, right?
Problem is, that sometimes I'm
gonna get the same one twice.
All right, so there's a good
good first step for us, right?
But sometimes it's
clicking more than once.
And I'm getting the same thing.
We cool if we can get
it to rotate through.
So the same basic idea, it's like we want
to be able to kind of go through the list,
right?
One of the things we might have to do here
is keep track of where we are, right?
Unfortunately, friends,
there are no for loops.
So we've got to basically
build our own for loop.
The old-fashioned way.
So one thing we can do is we can
say we have a variable here.
We say and we only want it for
this sprite only the cheesy puffs care
about what catchphrase they're on.
What do I call this?
We can call it current, current, current.
[INAUDIBLE]
>> Okay, that doesn't mean anything.
[LAUGH] That's a current.
Current number that's on.
We don't really have a green
flag in this case, but
we need some way to like
set that to one by default.
So we'll add a green flag for
our setup.And so we'll say let's just
start at one, and we'll see why we
won't need this in a little bit.
Set current to one.
And then what we can do is say,
we'll go into these operators, and
we'll do that modular again.
We'll say the current.
No, it's current, module, and
then we have four in this case.
And then we'll bump the current each time.
We'll start out with just
seeing if it works for one.
Say item current,
catchphrases so let's see.
Well, that's going on.
We got, say one.
All right.
Current was still set to zero
because I never hit the green flag.
Yay, and the apple is lonely,
in this case.
Cool, and so that's useful here.
So current is now one.
I am cheesy.
So what we want to do is bump
the number up every time.
He says the first thing
the first time he's clicked.
Then we want to say the second thing.
Then we want to say the third thing.
So on and so forth, right?
So even if we just put
the current in here for
a moment we can kind of
see that mostly work.
So we'll say current, and
then what we want to do is change current
by one after he said whatever it is.
So if you look here, it's one.
Now it's hello.
Now it's I'm totally non-sentient.
I'm a totally healthy food.
It's currently five, so what happens next?
It's outside.
So that's why we use that module so
it keeps wrapping around,
because it'll always be 0,
1, 2, 3, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4.
Right?
Well, never before because
divided by 4 will be 0 again.
We'll have no remainder, right?
But you cut to the problem,
you figure out the problem already.
So if we do that, we'll hit the green
flag, set it back to one I am cheesy.
Hello, I'm totally non-sentient.
Nothing.
>> You can also do it if it's greater
than, like, change current by one.
After that, if it is greater than four,
then it will change it to one again.
>> We could do that, right?
So, what Caleb said is, basically,
if at any point if it's less than one,
bump it up to one, right?
And I am pretty sure that work.
Let's try it out.
So we'll say if the number keeps going up.
The other thing we can do is if it's
always going to be 0, 1, 2 or 3 and
we want it to be 1, 2, 3 or 4,
what can we always do this number?
Just add 1, right?
So this will either be 0, 1, 2, or 3.
We want 1, 2, 3, 4.
So we'll just take that number.
We'll always add 1.
So now I'm cheesy.
Hello.
I'm totally non sentient.
I'm a healthy food.
I am cheesy.
Hello, I am totally non sentient.
I am totally a healthy food.
I am cheesy.
We rotate through.
This works, and I think we got
the point of both broadcasting
from the previous thing as well as
the idea of cycling through things.
In fact,
we can actually move these together,
which is now whenever Arnold is clicked,
instead of the sprite itself,
Arnold will say, hello,
and the cheese puffs will say
one of its catch phrases, right?
So now.
Hello, two seconds, hello.
Hello, I'm totally non sentient.
Hello, I am a healthy food, right?
This will break again in one case that
we just make this slightly better,
which is if we add one more catchphrase.
[SOUND] What's this other catchphrase be?
Pizza, there we go.
So there's a break again.
So the other thing we can also do just
to make this a little bit better.
Totally not necessary, is we just do
it based on the length of the phrases.
So it'll cycle through plus one and now
we can add stuff we can remove stuff we
don't have, what's that for previously is
what in program we call a magic number.
It meant something to us.
But now we just do it based on the length.
So now I can rotate through, hello.
I regret the two seconds on this,
I am cheesy.
Hello.
I am totally non-sentient.
I'm healthy food And
now it cycles through our new one.
And so we can add stuff,
we can remove stuff, and to Kayla's point,
we can now hide this list because
we've got some of that in place.
So we can start to like snap all
these different ideas together,
and add different For an interaction.
So you can create an entire like some
people aren't making games in scratch.
What they're doing is making an entire
plays or stories that like play out or
things that are actually scratch
ones we hit play the green flag.
And it's like teaching you how to
do something in scratch, right?
By having Arnold say
the different instructions and
it goes through an entire story.
So you begin to tie all of
these things together and
kind of create all sorts of different like
interactions like in our time together
today we're gonna rather than go all the
way in so the weeds on one thing we'll try
a few different things and
like you then you can kind of go and
explore with whichever thing is
the most interesting to you.